1. “The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your Anger," isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, "Together We Can Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 50 captured droids each. In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" slogan. In the other, Darth Vader presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids convert to the Dark Side after hearing Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's data scientist concludes that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to be used.”

>>Unless the Sith are only concerned with recruiting droids, there is an issue with the sample here. They haven’t A/B testing on any of the population they’ll be using the slogan on in practice. 


2. “In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly planets respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the Jedi. Upon their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective than Windu: Over 75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, because he is sure that he had a better success rate than Jar Jar on every planet. The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their representative in the future.”

>>This may be a hidden variable problem. Specifically, what were the populations on the planets? If the friendly planets Jar Jar visited were larger than those Windu visited, and the unfriendly planets Windu visited were larger than those for Jar Jar, these can both be true, and Windu did do a better job.


3. “A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information Technology. Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT workers are equally distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on satisfaction for each job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and for IT and present the report.”

>>Job satisfaction likely depends largely on location data. Because HR is concentrated in three countries, it can only really be compared to IT in those same countries. IT in the countries with no HR can be compared to the other IT departments to see how they’re doing compared to the rest of the company.


4. “When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in" to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your interview with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because after installing the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily. “

>>Well, it rises among people who are willing to have their data collected. It’s possible that only people who are already committed to their fitness routine will opt in for tracking.


5. “To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the three versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version B, then all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student takes a test. When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took Version B scored higher than students who took either Version A or Version C. She concludes from this that Version B is easier, and discards it.”

>>This may have to do with when students arrive to class. Maybe students who are nervous about the test arrive first, students who are confident about it arrive on time, and those who don’t care arrive last. The teacher should shuffle the tests randomly.